.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0

=================================================
NIPA - Netdev Infrastructure for Patch Automation
=================================================

This project is a simple CI/build bot for patchwork.

Patchwork is a web interface for patches posted to mailing lists,
and can also handle test results being reported against said patches.

Currently this project only includes simple checks and build testing,
all Linux kernel-centric. Patches are not tested against existing
kernel selftests.

Goals
=====

The main goal of NIPA is to minimize the amount of time
netdev and BPF maintainers have to spend validating patches.

As soon as patches hit the mailing list NIPA needs to validate
them and report errors to patchwork. If patch is deemed bad
maintainers can simply discard it from patchwork.

Because of load generated on the ML and the test systems results
are not reported directly to the authors of patches, we don't
want to facilitate "post just to be tested" scenarios.

The system needs to be easily run by individual developers.
The intention is to package it as a container in due course.
Having everyone test their patches locally allows for better
scaling (no need for big central infrastructure) and hopefully
creates an incentive for contributing.

Structure
=========

The project is split into multiple programs with different
uses.

`pw_poller.py` fetches emails from patchwork and runs tests in worker
threads. There is one worker thread for each tree, enabling testing
multiple series at a time (although admittedly the concurrency is
limited because `pw_poller.py` itself also needs the trees to de-mux
patches). Poller creates a directory with results for each series,
and sub-dirs for each patch.

Once tests are done another daemon - `pw_upload.py` uploads the results
as checks to patchwork.

`ingest_mdir.py` is supposed to serve the purpose of testing
patches locally, it can be pointed at a directory and run all the
checks on patches that directory contains (patches are expected to
be generated by `git format-patch`). `ingest_mdir.py` has not been
tested in a while so it's probably broken.

Configuration
=============

Configuration is read from INI files in main project directory.

There is a main config file called `nipa.config` but each script
allows script-specific settings to be applied (see sources).

Logging
=======

NIPA supports org mode file format for easy reading in Emacs,
and XML-based output.

Tests
=====

Tests can be either written in Python and be passed the Series /
Patch objects, or written as scripts which then return 0 on success,
250 on warning, or other values on error.

Tests also return (or print to a special file descriptor) the info
which will be displayed in patchwork's short summary.

Series tests
------------

Series tests are run once on the entire series. `pw_upload.py`
multiplicates them to each patch since patchwork does not support
"series checks"

subject_prefix
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check if subject prefix contains the tree name.

patch_count
~~~~~~~~~~~

Check if number of patches in the series is not larger than 15.

cover_letter
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check if series has a cover letter (require one only if there
are more than two patches, otherwise the series is trivial).

fixes_present
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check if any of the patches in the series contains a Fixes
tag.

If the tree name does not contain "next" in it assume that
the patches are targeting current release cycle, therefore
they are fixes.

Patch tests
-----------

verify_signedoff
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check that the Signed-off-by tag matches the From field.
This test was taken from GregKH's repo, but there's a number
of versions of this check circulating.

The check may be a little looser than some may expect, because
it's satisfied if authors name **or** email address match between
From and Signed-off-by, not necessarily both of them.

The original test validates the committer had signed-off
the commit as well as the author, which is obviously meaningless
when the test infra applies the patches to the tree by itself.

verify_fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check that the Fixes tag is correct.
This test was taken from GregKH's repo, but there's a number
of versions of this check circulating.

The hash is expected to be present in the tree to which patch
is being applied. This is a slight departure from GregKH's
original where the hash is checked against Linus's tree.

source_inline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check if there are any *inline* keywords in the C source files.

header_inline
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Try to catch static functions without the inline keyword in headers.

checkpatch
~~~~~~~~~~

Run selected tests of kernel's *scripts/checkpatch.pl* on the
patches.

build_allmodconfig_warn
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check if *allmodconfig*-configured kernel builds with the patch.
Catch new errors and warnings with *W=1 C=1* flags.

For now comparison is only by warning count, so warnings may get
silently replaced by a different one.

build_32bit
~~~~~~~~~~~

Check if *allmodconfig*-configured kernel builds for 32bit platforms.

cc_maintainers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check if addresses pointed out by `get_maintainers.pl` are included
in the To/Cc of the mails.

Warn if not all included, error if nobody is included or author of
a change blamed by a Fixes tag is not.

kdoc
~~~~

Run `kernel-doc` and check for warnings/errors. Similarly to build
tests only compare the number of errors for now.

maintainers
~~~~~~~~~~~

Run `get_maintainers.pl --self-test`.

Currently disabled because it's extremely slow.

module_param
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Warn if patch is adding module parameters.

stable
~~~~~~

Warn if patch is explicitly CCing the stable tree which is against
netdev policy.

signed
~~~~~~

Check for patch attestation (as generated by [patatt](https://github.com/mricon/patatt)). Warn when there
is no signature or if the key for a signature isn't available. Fail if
the signature doesn't match the attestation.

To Do
=====

 * build one-by-one for a PR
 * add tree aliases (bpf, bpf-next, ipsec, ipsec-next, etc.)

 * run coccicheck
 * rev xmas tree
 * make a better MAINTAINERS check than checkpatch
 * add a marker for patches with replies from buildbot

 * on a pull fixes may point to the commits in the pull

 * series ID injection
 * check that author of a patch for Fixes is CCed
 * misspell-fixer

 * make htmldocs
